README.md, before:

# clj-orchestrate

An idiomatic Clojure wrapper of the Orchestrate.io Java client. This client makes use
of core.async channels to provide non-blocking access to your Orchestrate collections.

## Usage

###Add a dependency

Add the necessary dependency to your Leiningen `project.clj`, and require as normal.

```clojure
[jmreidy/clj-orchestrate "0.1.0"] ;project.clj
(ns my-app.core (:require [jmreidy.clj-orchestrate :as orch])) ;app file
```

Further, KeyValue operations are located in the `clj-orchestrate.kv` namespace.

###Construct a client

A new instance of the Java library's `OrchestrateClient` is easily
created by supplying your API key to the `new-client` function.

```clojure
(def key "API KEY HERE")
(def client (orch/new-client key))
```

###Choose a data center

Not implemented yet

###Stopping a client

```clojure
(orch/stop-client client)
```

###Fetch data

There's multiple ways to query for Key-Value data within a given Orchestrate
collection. The most straightforward way to query is to find the latest
object for a given key. This query should be supplied with a channel to
handle the success response, and should usually also receive an error response
channel.

```clojure
(kv/fetch client "collection" "key" succ-chan)
(kv/fetch client "collection" "key" succ-chan err-chan)
```

Pro tip: Create a partially applied query for future convenience.

```clojure
(def collection-fetch (partial kv/fetch client "collection")
(collection-fetch "key" succ-chan)
```

If you'd like to query for a specific `ref` of a KV Object, or if it's
just your style preference, use the more verbose
named parameter version.

```clojure
(kv/fetch client "collection" {:key "key" :ref "ref" :succ-chan chan :err-chan echan})
```

###List Data

It's easy to list all data from a collection.

```clojure
(kv/list client "collection" {:limit 10 :values? true :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec })
 ```

 The query function defaults to a limit of 10, and supports paging up to 100 objects. `values?`
 corresponds to the underlying Java `withValues` option, which specifies whether the list
 of KV objects should be populated with the Object values. It defaults to true.

 The error channel is not required but is strongly recommended.


###Storing Data 

 Adding or updating KV Objects are both accomplished with the same operation.

 ```clojure
 (kv/put client "collection" {:key "key" :value {:foo "bar"} :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

Hashes with `:keyword` keys are intelligently converted to string keys.
The error channel is not required but is strongly recommended.

####Conditional Store

For conditional updates, you can check to make sure that you're updating a specific ref with `match-ref`.
The following code will only update the value at "key" if the object has the matching "ref".

 ```clojure
 (kv/put client "collection" {:key "key" :value {:foo "bar"} :match-ref "ref" :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

Likewise, it's possible to limit a put operation to creation rather than update with 
`only-if-absent?`


 ```clojure
 (kv/put client "collection" {:key "key" :value {:foo "bar"} :only-if-absent? true :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

####Store with Server-generated Keys

When creating a new KV record, you will frequently want to use a server-generated key rather than your 
own (e.g. surrogate versus natural keys). There's a seperate updating function that allows for
this action:

```clojure
(kv/post client "test" {:value "test"} success-chan error-chan)
```

The keys of the value object are stringified, as with the other data update operations.
The key (and ref) of the newly created object are available as a result of the call.


###Patch/Partial Updates

In addition to `put`-ing full JSON values, it's also possible to apply partial updates
by using a JSON patch format. Unlike the Java client, which uses a builder to programtically
construct the patch, the Clojure client expects the user to supply the patch as a vector of hashmaps. Please
see [the Orchestrate reference](https://orchestrate.io/docs/apiref#keyvalue-patch) for details
on what keys can be supplied.
 
```clojure
(kv/patch orch
          "test"
          "key"
          [{:op "replace" :path "val" :value "v01"}]
          {:succ-chan sc})
 ```
 
####Conditional Partial Update
 
As with the conditional `put` above, conditional partial updates can be specified with the 
`match-ref` key in the options hash.
 
```clojure
(kv/patch orch
          "test"
          "key"
          [{:op "replace" :path "val" :value "v01"}]
          {:succ-chan sc :match-ref "ref"})
```
 
####Test Patch
 
A "test" patch is a special JSONPatch op that allows for a type of commit/rollback functionality,
based on the results of a value test. The `test` op is specified in a patch like any other op.
 
```clojure
(kv/patch orch
          "test"
          "key"
          [{:op "replace" :path "val" :value "v02"}
           {:op "test" :path "val" :value "v03"]
          {:succ-chan sc})
 ```
 
###Merge Update
 
*Note: This appears to currently be broken in the Java client.*
 
The final type of KV Update operation is a "merge" update, which relies on the format of
a [JsonMergePatch](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7386). 
 
 ```clojure
(kv/merge client "collection" "key" {:v "val05"} {:succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})) 
```
 
###Deleting Data
A KV object can be deleted from a collection by providing its keys. Note
that deletes by default will not permanently delete the resource (see purge below).

```clojure
(orch/kv-delete client "collection" "key" succ-chan err-chan)
```

The error channel is not required but is strongly recommended.

####Conditonal Delete
As with other KV operations, a conditional delete can be performed by checking
against a ref using the `:match-ref` option.

```clojure
(kv/delete client "test" {:key "key" :match-ref "ref" :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

####Purge Delete
To delete an element entirely from the KV store, pass a `:purge? true` option to the delete call.

```clojure
(kv/delete client "test" {:key "key" :purge? true :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

###Search

###Events

###Relations/Graph

The Orchestrate Graph (Relations) functionality is accessed through the `clj-orchestrate.graph` 
namespace.

####List relations

A graph search is performed with the `get-links` function, which is supplied with

* the client connection
* the type of relation to search against
* the collection and key of the "source" element
* a success channel and an error channel

```clojure
;Get Joe's parents
(graph/get-links client "hasParent" {:collection "family" :key "Joe"} sc ec)
```

Multiple "degrees of separation" can be searched by supplying a vector of 
relation types, instead of a single string.

```clojure
;Get Joe's aunts and uncles
(graph/get-links client ["hasParent" "hasSibling"] {:collection "family" :key "Joe"} sc ec)
```

####Add relation

Adding a relation between entities in Orchestrate is as simple as supplying the relation type,
a source element (by collection and key), and a target element.

```clojure
(graph/link client 
            "hasParent" 
            {:collection "family" :key "Joe"} 
            {:collection "family" :key "Joe's dad"} 
            sc ec)
```

Keep in mind that relations are uni-directional. In the above example, a separate / inverse
`hasChild` relationship may need to be created as well.

####Delete relation
Deleting relations follows the same format as adding them - define a relation type,
supply a source by collection and key, and define a target by collection and key.

```clojure
(graph/delete client 
              "hasParent"
              {:collection "family" :key "Joe"} 
              {:collection "family" :key "Joe's Dad"} 
              sc ec)
```



## License

Copyright © 2015 Justin Reidy

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or any later version.

Commit message:

add notes on result helper fns

README.md, after:

# clj-orchestrate

An idiomatic Clojure wrapper of the Orchestrate.io Java client. This client makes use
of core.async channels to provide non-blocking access to your Orchestrate collections.

## Usage

###Add a dependency

Add the necessary dependency to your Leiningen `project.clj`, and require as normal.

```clojure
[jmreidy/clj-orchestrate "0.1.0"] ;project.clj
(ns my-app.core (:require [jmreidy.clj-orchestrate :as orch])) ;app file
```

Further, KeyValue operations are located in the `clj-orchestrate.kv` namespace.

###Construct a client

A new instance of the Java library's `OrchestrateClient` is easily
created by supplying your API key to the `new-client` function.

```clojure
(def key "API KEY HERE")
(def client (orch/new-client key))
```

###Choose a data center

Not implemented yet

###Stopping a client

```clojure
(orch/stop-client client)
```

###Handling results
Java result objects are passed back from the Java client to the success and error channels.
While it's possble that you may want to work with these Java objects directly, a number
of helper methods have been provided that allow for the user of the clj-orchestrate client
to work with pure Clojure data structures. There's two transforming functions of note, both
located in the `core` namespace:

* `get-results` will return a hashmap or lazy seq of hashmaps, depending on the query type

* `get-results-with-meta` will return a hashmap (or list of hashmaps) with two keys, `:data` 
and `:meta`. The `:data` value is the actual result value, which the `:meta` value is a map
of object metadata - the collection, key, and ref of that object.

Creation operations return metadata with no value, and delete operations return booleans without
metadata at all. In these cases, `get-results` will return the metadata map or a boolean (respectively),
while `get-results-with-meta` will return an object with an nil `:data` value (for metadata only)
or an empty `:meta` value (for booleans).

###Fetch data

There's multiple ways to query for Key-Value data within a given Orchestrate
collection. The most straightforward way to query is to find the latest
object for a given key. This query should be supplied with a channel to
handle the success response, and should usually also receive an error response
channel.

```clojure
(kv/fetch client "collection" "key" succ-chan)
(kv/fetch client "collection" "key" succ-chan err-chan)
```

Pro tip: Create a partially applied query for future convenience.

```clojure
(def collection-fetch (partial kv/fetch client "collection")
(collection-fetch "key" succ-chan)
```

If you'd like to query for a specific `ref` of a KV Object, or if it's
just your style preference, use the more verbose
named parameter version.

```clojure
(kv/fetch client "collection" {:key "key" :ref "ref" :succ-chan chan :err-chan echan})
```

###List Data

It's easy to list all data from a collection.

```clojure
(kv/list client "collection" {:limit 10 :values? true :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec })
 ```

 The query function defaults to a limit of 10, and supports paging up to 100 objects. `values?`
 corresponds to the underlying Java `withValues` option, which specifies whether the list
 of KV objects should be populated with the Object values. It defaults to true.

 The error channel is not required but is strongly recommended.


###Storing Data 

 Adding or updating KV Objects are both accomplished with the same operation.

 ```clojure
 (kv/put client "collection" {:key "key" :value {:foo "bar"} :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

Hashes with `:keyword` keys are intelligently converted to string keys.
The error channel is not required but is strongly recommended.

####Conditional Store

For conditional updates, you can check to make sure that you're updating a specific ref with `match-ref`.
The following code will only update the value at "key" if the object has the matching "ref".

 ```clojure
 (kv/put client "collection" {:key "key" :value {:foo "bar"} :match-ref "ref" :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

Likewise, it's possible to limit a put operation to creation rather than update with 
`only-if-absent?`


 ```clojure
 (kv/put client "collection" {:key "key" :value {:foo "bar"} :only-if-absent? true :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

####Store with Server-generated Keys

When creating a new KV record, you will frequently want to use a server-generated key rather than your 
own (e.g. surrogate versus natural keys). There's a seperate updating function that allows for
this action:

```clojure
(kv/post client "test" {:value "test"} success-chan error-chan)
```

The keys of the value object are stringified, as with the other data update operations.
The key (and ref) of the newly created object are available as a result of the call.


###Patch/Partial Updates

In addition to `put`-ing full JSON values, it's also possible to apply partial updates
by using a JSON patch format. Unlike the Java client, which uses a builder to programtically
construct the patch, the Clojure client expects the user to supply the patch as a vector of hashmaps. Please
see [the Orchestrate reference](https://orchestrate.io/docs/apiref#keyvalue-patch) for details
on what keys can be supplied.
 
```clojure
(kv/patch orch
          "test"
          "key"
          [{:op "replace" :path "val" :value "v01"}]
          {:succ-chan sc})
 ```
 
####Conditional Partial Update
 
As with the conditional `put` above, conditional partial updates can be specified with the 
`match-ref` key in the options hash.
 
```clojure
(kv/patch orch
          "test"
          "key"
          [{:op "replace" :path "val" :value "v01"}]
          {:succ-chan sc :match-ref "ref"})
```
 
####Test Patch
 
A "test" patch is a special JSONPatch op that allows for a type of commit/rollback functionality,
based on the results of a value test. The `test` op is specified in a patch like any other op.
 
```clojure
(kv/patch orch
          "test"
          "key"
          [{:op "replace" :path "val" :value "v02"}
           {:op "test" :path "val" :value "v03"]
          {:succ-chan sc})
 ```
 
###Merge Update
 
*Note: This appears to currently be broken in the Java client.*
 
The final type of KV Update operation is a "merge" update, which relies on the format of
a [JsonMergePatch](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7386). 
 
 ```clojure
(kv/merge client "collection" "key" {:v "val05"} {:succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})) 
```
 
###Deleting Data
A KV object can be deleted from a collection by providing its keys. Note
that deletes by default will not permanently delete the resource (see purge below).

```clojure
(orch/kv-delete client "collection" "key" succ-chan err-chan)
```

The error channel is not required but is strongly recommended.

####Conditonal Delete
As with other KV operations, a conditional delete can be performed by checking
against a ref using the `:match-ref` option.

```clojure
(kv/delete client "test" {:key "key" :match-ref "ref" :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

####Purge Delete
To delete an element entirely from the KV store, pass a `:purge? true` option to the delete call.

```clojure
(kv/delete client "test" {:key "key" :purge? true :succ-chan sc :err-chan ec})
```

###Search

###Events

###Relations/Graph

The Orchestrate Graph (Relations) functionality is accessed through the `clj-orchestrate.graph` 
namespace.

####List relations

A graph search is performed with the `get-links` function, which is supplied with

* the client connection
* the type of relation to search against
* the collection and key of the "source" element
* a success channel and an error channel

```clojure
;Get Joe's parents
(graph/get-links client "hasParent" {:collection "family" :key "Joe"} sc ec)
```

Multiple "degrees of separation" can be searched by supplying a vector of 
relation types, instead of a single string.

```clojure
;Get Joe's aunts and uncles
(graph/get-links client ["hasParent" "hasSibling"] {:collection "family" :key "Joe"} sc ec)
```

####Add relation

Adding a relation between entities in Orchestrate is as simple as supplying the relation type,
a source element (by collection and key), and a target element.

```clojure
(graph/link client 
            "hasParent" 
            {:collection "family" :key "Joe"} 
            {:collection "family" :key "Joe's dad"} 
            sc ec)
```

Keep in mind that relations are uni-directional. In the above example, a separate / inverse
`hasChild` relationship may need to be created as well.

####Delete relation
Deleting relations follows the same format as adding them - define a relation type,
supply a source by collection and key, and define a target by collection and key.

```clojure
(graph/delete client 
              "hasParent"
              {:collection "family" :key "Joe"} 
              {:collection "family" :key "Joe's Dad"} 
              sc ec)
```



## License

Copyright © 2015 Justin Reidy

Distributed under the Eclipse Public License either version 1.0 or any later version.
